Source: https://www.iitb.ac.in/newacadhome/NEW_ENTRANTS_PG_PHD_HOSTEL_GENERALINSTRUCTIONS.pdf
Topic: Hostel allotment & room rules

HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION:
Please note that, for the students who are eligible for on-campus hostel accommodation,
hostels have been pre-allotted and the same has been communicated to you all. There are four
hostels for male students (Hostel#17, Hostel#18, TANSA, Hostel#4) and three hostels for
female students (Hostel#15, Hostel#10, Hostel#11).

Students report to the hostel provided to them from 25th of July in the office hours
from 10:00 am to 6:00 pm and complete the hostel occupation formalities. Temporary
accommodation would be provided to the student if the student arrives on campus in non-office
hours.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
- Students have to bring 5 passport-size photographs along with them.
- There would be help desks set up in each of the hostels where students have to submit the
  physical hard copy of the pre-filled hostel registration form and other necessary forms,
  as applicable. Following this, students get the keys of their hostel room.
- Help desks would also be set up at the Main Gate of IIT Bombay to guide students.

NOTE: The rooms will be double occupancy rooms and students will have a room partner.
The hostel authorities have the right to reshuffle rooms after the initial
allotment to ensure the policy of double occupancy room allotment on a consistent and uniform
basis in the first year of stay at the respective hostel. Students must abide by
the rules and regulations set up by the hostel authority.

The campus provides facilities of mattress stalls from where students are able
to purchase essential equipment like mattresses, pillow, pillow cover, bedsheets, bucket, mug,
dustbins etc. at a subsidized rate. These stalls are located at various locations like Hostel 17,
Tansa, Hostel 15 and Hostel 10.

Each hostel has its own mess. To enroll in the mess, students have to contact the Mess
Manager of their allotted hostel once they complete the Hostel Occupation formalities. Students
have to pay and bring the SMA (Semester Mess Advance) payment proof to enroll in the mess facility.

The Institute Hostel Affairs Council and the individual Hostel council provide
assistance in this regard.
